In this video,
we'll look at exporting XML data from an Excel workbook.
So 03 Excel in XML.
Let's now go into the last sub folder,
seven Exporting XML Data and then open up the Excel workbook Expenses Q one and Q two.
And here we've got a single work feet that contains its,
um,
Excel data.
It's not an Excel table,
and the first thing to note is that we can't simply export any old Excel data as XML.
And the reason for this is that unlike formats such as CS,
V,
XML is not generic.
Whenever you work with XML,
you work with a specific XML vocabulary.
In other words,
you're XML Document adheres to a particular structure normally defined by a schemer,
Document said.
We go across the developer,
you'll notice that the export command is unavailable.
So before we can export XML,
we have to link this particular data with an XML vocabulary.
And as we've seen in previous videos,
the way that Excel does.
This is through the creation of XML maps.
So we make the XML source task pain visible by clicking on the source button and then at
the bottom,
we click on XML maps.
We keep on ad,
and now we need to navigate into full the number seven.
And here's our excess defile our schemer document.
We double click on this and when we click OK,
we now have an exceptional man,
which contains all of the elements defined by the schema.
We can see that this external vocabulary has the simple three level structure,
which excel requires.
We have the root element expenses,
the repeated element expense and the Children of the repeated element are the elements that
contain text and which will correspond to the columns with a now Excel data.
You'll see we've got a match or all of the columns with the exception off percentage
reimbursed on.
This is obviously a simple calculation,
which we've done in Excel.
Let's say we need it in Excel frowned convenience.
But because it's not part of the external vocabulary,
we can't export it.
So when we do our mapping,
we simply need to miss out percentage reimbursed.
So the 1st 5 columns are all in the same order name branch bait claimed amount claimed and
amount reimbursed.
I could just use the control key to select all of them and then dragged the selection onto
the first column.
And because they're all in the same order,
there automatically mapped in the correct fashion.
Then I want to miss out presented,
reimbursed and Man Date reimbursed on category,
so I couldn't click and control click to select them.
But what I can't then do is to simply drag this election onto Dane reimbursed.
If I do that,
I'll end up with two separate tables.
Let me show you says I drank here because I'm missing out a column.
I've now got Table two and Table one,
which,
of course,
is not what I want,
so I just need to undo that.
So what we need to do is to make sure that the scented reimbursed it's part of the table
before we'd met the last two columns on.
We can do that simply by going to the bottom and drank in the resize handle so that column
F presented Reimbursed is now part of the table.
So now it's safe to select the last two columns.
Dave reimbursed category and dragged him onto column G to complete the mapping.
So now we're going to table tools design.
You'll see we only have a single table,
and while we're here,
let's rename it so without having in place,
we can now safely export the data as I click on each column you can see in the XML source
task pain the corresponding element.
The only exception is that when I click on percentage reimbursed,
there's no change within the XML source task pain Because that's the only column.
It's not mapped to element with that XML mapping in place when we go to developer export is
now available on the interest rate on exports.
Unless just call the file expenses on export.
And here's the exploded final expenses,
Toe XML,
and when we open it,
we can see that it corresponds to the exile structure that we saw in the XML source task
pain,
the columns and now Matt correctly to the appropriate elements.
And as we anticipated,
percentage reimbursed has not been exported because it's not part off the external
structure.
So that's all there is to export in XML from an Excel worksheet and that completes our look
at importing and exporting XML in the next section will live on to look at two very useful
Excel functions,
Web service and filter XML